---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: Some notes about why so many models are out there.
datePublished: '2016-02-01T19:38:10.623Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-01T19:37:59.725Z'
title: Models of Leadership
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-19-87591825-2b7f-4dd4-8d70-188035a90448.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 87591825-2b7f-4dd4-8d70-188035a90448/index.html
_type: Article

---
If you've looked into material about leadership, you've undoubtedly found many different models. Often the models presented provide a convenient way to describe leadership - whether of an individual leader or within an organization. Sometimes they will even give suggestions of what type of leader or leadership style is preferred in certain environments. These days, most articles will include at least an acknowledgement that adaptability is needed. (for example, The Center for Association Leadership has an article online suggesting a "mix and match" approach  https://www.asaecenter.org/Resources/ANowDetail.cfm?ItemNumber=241962 )

In practice, more use is made of the descriptive models than of prescriptive models. Why? It's a lot like sports analysis versus play calling. It's always easier to write about what happened and what should have happened than to correctly identify beforehand what needs to happen. The most masterful leadership is a combination of science and art. There is a science, social psychology and sociology are two in fact, to leadership. The sciences can provide in-depth analysis of leadership styles and scenarios. Because of the slow process of the scientific method, this is best suited to describing the past and recommending future leadership strategies. But strategies fail without adequate implementation through specific tactics. Tactics is not something social science can easily analyze because each scenario presents a completely different set of variables and on top of that the factors are usually weighted differently than the last time. Here is where art comes into play. Once a certain level of understand is acquired through learning, the leader can begin applying the principles and find out where they fail or even backfire. It is only through the experience of trial and error that an art form develops and the leader truly leads.